The relationship between Data Science and theory is the root of all understanding and advancement of the world around us. While it might only seem like theory depends on data, data depends on theory as well. Without a theory, data has no “conclusion” or direction. Geoff West in particular explains and explores this in depth in his book “Scale”. We can draw concrete conclusions from Data as we turn theory into fact.
	
Sinan Aral’s quote describes the phenomenon of measurement driving all scientific turning points (or as he says, revolutions). To me, this brings to mind all equations we use to calculate things such as the “Feels like” temperature, which is derived from the actual temperature and humidity percentage. Discovery of measurement leads to discovery of future calculation through equations and formulas, which leads to opportunity for studying and experimenting new ideas in different things and areas. 
	
Owen Barder uses many metaphors to describe the idea of economic systems being constantly evolving systematically and dynamically. There are so many factors in an economic system that develop over time such as the people in it, the environment, and the wealth. Within these factors there is constant interaction which results in shifts economically. There is no one (or even two) thing that we can tie an economy’s evolution to, and because of that it’s a complex system that cannot be formulated, especially linearly. 
	
We have witnessed significant gains in our ability to describe, analyze, and predict human development processes through geo-spatial studies in particular as they allow us to study why certain areas are a certain way with certain people, and where they move and what they become over large amounts of time. I anticipate Data Science becoming more of a catalyst for gathering knowledge in objective forms. Something that is potentially an obstacle and harmful is the fact that collecting data on people can at times be or seem like an invasion of privacy, but this can be avoided if everyone in the situation (the scientists and population) is fully transparent. 
	
Data Science will certainly improve the human condition in the future through changing theory into fact, which allows society to implement changes for the greater good and work towards a new and improved developed future.	
