Blumenstock describes the “Promise, Pitfalls, and Ways Forward” of Data Science generally and conceptually in addition to giving specific examples. Starting with the promises of Data Science, he expresses its potential to assist and solve world problems. This begins with collecting data for correlation studies on a population, but can lead to much bigger things such as studying the spread of disease. It will enable governments to respond to problems much more efficiently and accurately, as the human mind is much more prone to mistakes due to subconscious biases, skewed perspectives, etc. than data in a computer. 
	
	The promise of Data Science particularly applicable in a time like this--in the middle of the Coronavirus Pandemic. Data is more than necessary in a time of disease striking a population as it allows us to watch it travel and act in the right places at the right times. We can do this through Data from Digital Contact Tracing, and in a similar sense CDR cellphone tracing has been used in Africa to track the spread of disease. 

	However, there are numerous pitfalls of Data Science and it can only be fully effective if we’re aware of them and take them into account. In the most “scary” sense, it can be used to the point of abusing power in a country with a semi-authoritarian regime. Blumenstock mentions “various reports from China suggest that some people are being blocked from using trains and aeroplanes because of low ‘social credit scores’ — including those who have reportedly spread false information about terrorism or committed financial wrongdoings.” I’ve researched further into this and they in fact use facial recognition to identify anyone that Jaywalks, runs a red light, etc. and this affects their social credit score as well. This is where the accuracy and consistency of Data Science could get out of hand and most importantly, unethical.

	Pitfalls also lie in validation and biases as most of the time only people with cell phones, and in particular smartphones will be included in the Data which will lead to inaccurate findings, and/or findings that benefit the wealthy more than the poor or financially average. 

	While I support strategies that help (whether they merely attempt to or successfully do) the poor, I believe it’s somewhat inevitable that the wealthy and privileged will benefit. Everything we do circles back to needing money--including collecting Data.

	Blumenstock closes his thoughts with the ways we can act to move forward to improve Data Science. He describes ways we can validate, customize, and collaborate in order to get it to its highest degree of effectiveness. In the sense of  collaboration, he uses DataKind as an example, “a global network that attempts to link data scientists to social-change organizations, many of which are focused on issues in emerging economies.” Using models is one of the best ways to create your own effective “tool” (in this case the tool of Data Science) so I believe bringing this up as an example was a very effective way to suggest moving forward. Collaboration between different leaders of a population can lead to less biased and more properly implicated data.

	I believe that Data Science has so much potential that cannot be ignored, and likewise we cannot be afraid of it. There are ways it can be harmful, but an important thing to remember is that without it we are inevitably still in harm's way simply because humans are imperfect and selfish in their actions, even as leaders. Using Data will create a much more objective perspective and factual take on topics such as spread of disease or crisis, and lead to effective problem solving actions quicker. As Blumenstock says, a humbler take on Data Science could be the answer rather than “a blend of Red-Bull-fueled hacking and espresso-inspired statistics” (Mike Driscoll). If we make careful analysis and evaluate all possible confounding variables (Like Kayla said, it’s a balancing act), it can arguably be a method worth implementing largely into our society and its leaders.
